
SQL Specifications – Case Study (Risk Adjustment)

Process:

1.	Ensure all table values are in a usable format (dates, codes, etc.). 
2.	Convert excel files into csv format.
3.	Upload csv tables into SQL Lite Studio
4.	Use select * limit statements to check data in each table (row counts, formatting, etc.). 
5.	Confirm total row amount for each table used. 
    a.	5316 rows in the inpatient claims table
    b.	6000 rows in the eligibility table.
6.	Create a base on inpatient claims, and only bring in admitting diagnosis codes. 
7.	Left join in HCC crosswalk on ICD codes from inpatient claims.
8.	Left join the eligibility table on member id and year, to get proper risk score attribution, based on the service year. 
9.	Round risk scores to 3rd decimal place for legibility. 
10.	5342 rows in the initial output, indicating duplicates. 
    a.	After exporting to excel, CONCAT() function was used on member id, date of service, and ICD code. 
    b.	Conditional formatting is used to identify duplicates.
    c.	Duplicates were being caused by the ICD code description field which was removed. Duplicates were resolved as a result. 
11.	The inpatient claims table has 1363 distinct members across all three service years.
    a.	A distinct entry per member per year results in 3023 rows. 
12.	Create temp table based on intial admitting diagnoses code query.
13.	Querying off the initial admit table, create a case statement to establish recaptured condition logic. 
    a.	If the condition existed in the previous year, and the current, the condition is classified as recaptured. 
14.	Create a field for unique conditions (member + hcc), using a case statement to account for nulls/blank cells. 
15.	Create a base on inpatient claims, and only bring in inpatient diagnosis codes. 
16.	Establish three queries for each ICD code field in inpatient claim and union them together. 
    a.	This is a best practice as it alleviates the need for more steps in join logic.
17.	Left join the eligibility table on member id and year, to get proper risk score attribution, based on the service year. 
18.	Round risk scores to 3rd decimal place for legibility. 
19.	Create temp table based on initial inpatient diagnoses code query.
20.	Querying off the initial inpatient table, create a case statement to establish recaptured condition logic. 
    a.	Same logic previously stated for admitting diagnosis table. (11a.)
21.	Create a field for unique conditions (member + hcc), using a case statement to account for nulls/blank cells. 
22.	Use the eligibility table as a base for estimated revenue calculation.
23.	Use the inpatient claims table as a base for actual revenue calculation.
    a.	Left join in the eligibility table on person_id and year to bring in member months and member level risk scores.
24.	Export all data into an excel document and use pivot tables & formulas to provide insights into the data. 
